Hi everyone, and welcome
to lesson three.
In this video, we will explore
some of the objective
functions most
commonly used in
the autonomous driving motion
planning problem formulation.
In this context, the
objective function of
our motion planning
problem gives us
a way of scoring
our current motion plan,
and allows us to optimize
the motion plans such that
it has desirable characteristics.
After completing this lesson,
you'll be able to list
some useful objective
functions that
can be used in motion planning
for autonomous driving.
You will also understand
the benefits that
each objective function offers
to the motion planning process.
So let's get started.
When performing path planning,
the simplest and most intuitive
goal is that we would
like to reach our destination
as efficiently as possible.
In the path planning
context this,
often translates to minimizing
the arc length of the
path that we're planning.
What is the arc length?
Intuitively, the
arc length of the path is
the total accumulated distance
the car will travel as
it traverses the path.
In many cases, the path will be
parameterized by arc length.
So this can be formulated as
a penalty term proportional
to the arc length.
In other cases, we
will have to solve an
integral numerically to calculate
the arc length of a path.
The general arc length
integral is shown here
in the first equation,
where Sf is the total
accumulated arc length,
Xi is the starting x
coordinate of the path,
and Xf is the end x
coordinate of the path.
By minimizing arc length,
we are computing
the shortest path
from our current location,
through our required destination.
When optimizing a
velocity profile,
time to destination is
often the objective we
would like to minimize.
In terms of arc length,
this is the same as
integrating the inverse of
the longitudinal velocity over
the path as a function
of arc length.
Intuitively, this is
equivalent to dividing
the total distance by
the velocity traveled along
the curve at each point.
Except since the velocity
changes along the path,
we formulate it as an integral.
This integral is given
in the second equation,
where Tf is the total time
of the profile.
By minimizing this integral,
we are minimizing
the time to reach
the destination while following
a given planned path.
As an example, let's look at
two possible paths between
the same start and end locations.
The first path clearly has
a longer arc length
than the second path,
and is therefore
less efficient at
the task of reaching
its destination.
We can see that even
though they have
the same initial
and final states,
the second path will result in
a lower value of the arc length
objective function,
which suits are driving
task more favorably.
Now, in path planning
for autonomous driving,
we may be given a reference path
we'd like to follow.
In many cases, this
will be given to us by
our mapping module as
the center line of a length,
or the required path for
a turn in an intersection.
To ensure that we follow
the reference path as
closely as possible,
we include what is known as
an integral of difference term,
or IOD for short.
Essentially, it
penalizes deviations
from the input
reference path Xref,
as we traverse
are calculated path
as shown in the first equation.
Similarly, when performing
velocity profile optimization,
we often want to minimize
the difference between
our velocity profiles
speed throughout the path with
some reference speed Vref,
whether it will be
the speed limit
or determined otherwise.
This is shown in
the second equation.
While this can be formulated as
an absolute difference penalty,
it is often the case
that we want to penalize
exceeding speed limits more
harshly than staying
below the speed limit.
So we may add what is
called a hinge loss
term to our objective shown
in the third equation.
Essentially, this term is only
active when the velocity profile
exceeds the speed limit,
that is when
the difference between
our speed and the speed
limit is positive,
otherwise this term is zero.
This allows us to penalize
speed limit violations more
harshly while still allowing
us to encourage
the autonomous vehicle
to reach its required
reference velocity.
The next objective we'd like to
tackle is rides smoothness.
Recall from the previous lesson
that in order to
maintain stability and comfort,
we constrained our maximum
acceleration magnitude.
When optimizing comfort in
the objective function
of our velocity profile,
we instead turn our focus to
minimizing the jerk
along our trajectory.
What is jerk? We're
not referring to
that of noxious driver
that you just cut off.
Jerk is the rate of change of
acceleration with
respect to time,
or the third derivative
of position.
The jerk along the car's
trajectory greatly
impacts the user's comfort
while in the car.
So when planning
our velocity profile,
we would like to keep
the accumulated absolute value
of jerk as small as possible,
shown here by this integral.
Let's look at an example of
two different velocity profiles.
On the left is
a linear ramp profile
which maximizes jerk at the
start and end of the profile.
This is shown in
the large spikes in
the jerk at the start
and end of our plot.
For passengers, this can
be quite uncomfortable.
If we compare this with
a bi quadratic profile
as seen on the right,
We can see that there are
no jerk spikes which will
result in a much smoother
ride for the passengers.
Because of this
difference in comfort,
it is important to
choose profiles that
reduce jerk that passengers
feel when possible.
Now, when planning paths,
we have to be mindful that
the structure of our path
will impact the comfort of
our velocity profile as well.
Recall from the
previous lesson that
paths with high
curvature constrained
the maximum velocity
along the path to
a low value in order to
remain within the friction
ellipse of the vehicle.
To ensure that we avoid points
of high curvature along our path,
we need to formulate
some penalty for
large absolute curvature values,
and objective function that
is commonly used to represent
this penalty is known as
the bending energy of the path.
Essentially, it is
the square curvature
integrated along the path,
where once again Kappa
denotes the curvature.
This objective
distributes the curvature
more evenly along the path,
preventing any one
along the path from
reaching too high a
total curvature value.
As an example, in this path,
we have a path planned
for a left turn
with quite a harsh bend before
reaching the goal state.
According to our bending
energy objective,
this will be highly
penalized as there is
a point of peaks
curvature along the path.
If we were to plan a
velocity profile for this path,
we would need to decelerate
greatly by the time we reached
the bend in the curve.
Otherwise we would
sacrifice comfort of
our passengers and potentially
even vehicle stability.
If we instead look at
the path on the right,
we have a path for
a left turn with
a more widely distributed
lower overall curvature.
This will result in a smoother
more comfortable term,
and will allow us to maintain
a reasonable speed while still
staying within
the comfort rectangle
when optimizing
our velocity profile.
Now that we've gone
through a variety of
objective functions
for motion planning,
let's take some time to
summarize what we've
discussed in this video.
We first discussed
objective functions
related to efficiency,
and also discussed how they
reduce path length
and transit time.
We discussed how to
encourage trajectories
to track reference paths
and velocity profiles,
as well as how to
improve comfort along
a given trajectory by
penalizing high-path
curvature and jerk.
By now, you should have
a general idea of some types of
objective functions
you will need to
consider when optimizing paths
and trajectories.
When designing an over-arching
objective function,
each of these terms will need to
be combined into one function,
often as a weighted sum.
The particular
combination of weights
you choose is
an engineering decision,
and you will need to
fine tune your choice
depending on
a specific application.
Of course, we have only
scratched the surface on
a rich topic of
optimization objectives for
path and trajectory planning.
As you progress as
an autonomy engineer I'm
sure you'll be able to
come up with interesting
and useful objectives
functions yourself.
In our next video,
we will discuss ways to decouple
the motion planning problem into
simpler and smaller sub-problems,
as well as outline
different approaches to
solving each sub-problem.
See you there.